Repeat targeting with position-specific feedback
To study behavioral influences on syllable repetition, we were particularly interested in targeting individual instances of the same syllable within repeat phrases. For example, we might want to target only the fifth occurrence of syllable 'a' in a phrase consisting of repetitions of syllable 'a' (Fig. 7). Repeat phrases can be particularly challenging for template-based approaches, which match templates on a continuous input stream without segmentation. They require setting parameters for repetitions of template matches, with refractory periods after matches ensuring that there can be no other matches within the same syllable. Due to subtle changes in the timing of syllables and gaps throughout the repeat phrase, it can be challenging or impossible to define templates and refractory periods in a way that they do not become misaligned over the duration of the phrase, eventually leading to counting errors. Moove's syllable-based approach eliminates this source of counting errors and ensures that latency remains stable with respect to syllable onsets throughout the phrase. As in other sequences, the target can be chosen through pattern matching of regular expressions, allowing the user to specify which position(s) to target within the repeat phrase. As Moove explicitly detects syllable onsets and saves the history of previously detected syllables, it eliminates the need to discriminate spectrally similar syllables based on timing alone. To demonstrate this capability, we show an example song bout in which we targeted the fifth repetition of syllable 'a' within a repeat phrase for auditory feedback manipulations (Fig. 7). In both phrases in the example bout, Moove successfully detected the fourth 'a' (a4) and triggered playback of different auditory stimuli ('c' and 'd'; red bars). Playback latency was chosen so that playback overlaps with the fifth 'a' (a5). This demonstrates that Moove allows precise control over the target position within repeat phrases.

Figure 7. Repeat targeting with position-specific auditory feedback. Example bout demonstrating targeting of the fourth syllable in a repeat phrase of syllable 'a' in bird 3. Green bars indicate repeat phrase 'a'. Red bars indicate auditory playback of different auditory stimuli ('c' and 'd'). Vertical dashed lines mark detected syllable onsets. Latency was set so that playback overlaps syllable a5.
