Repeat targeting with position-specific feedback

To study behavioral influences on syllable repetition, we were particularly interested in
targeting individual instances of the same syllable within repeat phrases. For example, we
might want to target only the fifth occurrence of syllable 'a' in a phrase consisting of
repetitions of syllable 'a' (Fig. 7). Repeat phrases can be particularly challenging for
template-based approaches, which match templates on a continuous input stream without
segmentation. They require setting parameters for repetitions of template matches, with
refractory periods after matches ensuring that there can be no other matches within the
same syllable. Due to subtle changes in the timing of syllables and gaps throughout the
repeat phrase, it can be challenging or impossible to define templates and refractory
periods in a way that they do not become misaligned over the duration of the phrase,
eventually leading to counting errors. Moove's syllable-based approach eliminates this
source of counting errors and ensures that latency remains stable with respect to syllable
onsets throughout the phrase. As in other sequences, the target can be chosen through
pattern matching of regular expressions, allowing the user to specify which position(s) to
target within the repeat phrase. As Moove explicitly detects syllable onsets and saves the
history of previously detected syllables, it eliminates the need to discriminate spectrally
similar syllables based on timing alone. To demonstrate this capability, we show an example
song bout in which we targeted the fifth repetition of syllable 'a' within a repeat phrase
for auditory feedback manipulations (Fig. 7). Moove triggers playback on the onset of the
fourth 'a' (a4), with playback latency chosen so that it overlaps with the fifth 'a' (a5).
In both phrases in the example bout, Moove successfully detected a4 and triggered playback
of different auditory stimuli ('c' and 'd'; red bars). Across the 12 recording bouts from
which this example was drawn, Moove correctly triggered on 34 of 36 target phrases
(precision: 97.1%, recall: 94.4%, F1 = 0.96), with one false positive and two missed
triggers. This demonstrates that Moove allows precise and reliable control over the target
position within repeat phrases.

[Figure7]
Figure 7. Repeat targeting with position-specific auditory feedback. Example bout
demonstrating targeting of the fourth occurrence of syllable 'a' (a4) to deliver feedback
overlapping the fifth repetition (a5) in bird 3. Green bars indicate syllables within the
repeat phrase. Red bars indicate auditory playback of different stimuli ('c' and 'd').
Vertical dashed lines mark detected syllable onsets.

# Kommentare für später: jacqui fragen mit latenz, 2. sagen dass das bird x aus dem paper war daher war parameter tuning notwendig.
